---
layout: post
title:  "Understanding Rewrite files in Knox"
date:   9999-01-01
categories: knox
---

This article attempts to provide an overview of the Rewrite functionality in [Apache Knox][knox-site].

Being one of the most powerful features of Knox, Rewrite is also the most complex in the opinion of most of the Knox contributors.

The following questions are typically asked by someone who is new to this part of Knox:

1. When and why do I need a rewrite file?
2. How do I go about writing a rewrite file?
3. Once I write the file, how do I test it?

This article will tackle the first two questions and a follow on article will provide some details on the third.

# What is it?

The Apache Knox Gateway is a REST API Gateway for interacting with Hadoop clusters. In doing so it provides for a single
access point to all REST APIs in a Hadoop cluster (at the time of writing this, Knox has added support to proxy UI's as
well as REST APIs).

We typically refer to these REST APIs as services in Knox. Since all requests and responses pass through Knox, it is
essential that Knox provides the ability to rewrite these requests and responses so that the client interacting with
Knox can seamlessly do all such interactions without knowing anything about the where these services are hosted and how
to access them. Some of this is made clear in the article [Adding a service to Apache Knox]
[http://kminder.github.io/knox/2015/11/16/adding-a-service-to-knox.html]

At a high level the Rewrite functionality provides the ability to rewrite the following parts of request or response:

1. The URL
2. The Headers
3. The Body

The content of the headers or body may contain special information like host names or full URLs. There are specialized
functions available to use to help rewrite such content.

# File format

To simplify things, think about the rewrite file containing one or more <rule> or <filter> tags. You need to write 'rules'
 in order to modify requests or responses in a particular way and you can optionally use filters to apply those rules to
 specific content.

 

# Advanced functions


    <rule name="nn-url">
        <rewrite template="{$serviceUrl[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

    <rule name="nn-addr">
        <rewrite template="{$serviceAddr[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

    <rule name="nn-scheme">
        <rewrite template="{$serviceScheme[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

    <rule name="nn-host">
        <rewrite template="{$serviceHost[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

    <rule name="nn-port">
        <rewrite template="{$servicePort[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

    <rule name="nn-path">
        <rewrite template="{$servicePath[NAMENODE]}"/>
    </rule>

# Examples

